## Programming Paradigm

A programming paradigm is a style or a way of programming. It is classified by execution mode, organizated code or the style of syntax/grammar. Therefore, each paradigm supports a set of concepts that makes it the best for a certain kind of problem.

> Never use the pharse "__programming language paradigm__" because paradigm is just a way of doing thing(general), not a concrete thing(like a language). We often say "L is a P language" (e.g. "Haskell is a functional programming language") but that does not mean there is any such thing as "functional language paradigm".

<br>

### Declarative Programming

Declarative programming (implicit) focuses on what the computer should do rather than how they do it (e.g. SQL).

```sql
select upper(name)
from people
where length(name) > 5
order by name
```

<br>

### Imperative Programming

Imperative programming (explicit) focuses on sequence of commands/steps (statements) which indicates how computation takes place (how to do it) and it will change the global state when statments were executed.

```javascript
result = [];
for i = 0; i < length(people); i++ {
    p = people[i];
    if length(p.name)) > 5 {
        addToList(result, toUpper(p.name));
    }
}
```

<br>

### Procedual Programming

Procedual programming is a type of imperative programming based on proceduces. It affects on how imperative program appear an how they are constructed.

📝 It could be considered a step towards declarative programming because we look at the names, arguments and return types of proceduces without looking at details how it works.

```javascript
function allOdd(words) {
  for (var i = 0; i < length(words); ++i) {
    var len = length(words[i]);
    if (!odd(len)) {
      return false;
    }
  }
  return result;
}
```

<br>

### Functional Programming

Functional programming treats computer programs as mathematical functions and functions are used as the fundamental building blocks of programs.

```haskell
function allOdd(words) {
  return apply(and, map(compose(odd, length), words));
}
```

In general, the real different between functional programming and imperative programing is the mindset
  + Imperative programmers think of variables and block of memory.
  + Functional programmers think "how can i transform my input data into my outputdata". Therefore, your program is the pipeline and set of transforms on the data to take it from input to output. As a consequence of this mindset, programers typically describe what will happen instead of specific mechanism of how it will happen.
