## SQL Multiversion Concurrency Control

### Transaction Isolation
+ Read committed is an isolation level that guarantees that any data read was committed at the moment is read.
+ Repeatable read is higher isolation level, that in addition to the guarantees of the read committed level, it also guarantees that any data read cannot change.
+ Serializable makes an even stronger guarantee. In addition to everything repeatable read guarantees, it also guarantees that no new data can be seen by subsequent read.

For example:

There are two processes A and B. Process B is reading Table X Process A is writing in table X Process B is reading again Table X.

+ ReadUncommitted: Process B can read uncommitted data from process A and it could see different rows based on B writing. **No lock at all**
+ ReadCommitted: Process B can read ONLY committed data from process A and it could see different rows based on COMMITTED only B writing. **Could we call it Simple Lock?**
+ RepeatableRead: Process B will read the same data (rows) whatever Process A is doing. But process A can change other rows. **Rows level Block**
+ Serializable: Process B will read the same rows as before and Process A cannot read or write in the table. **Table-level Block**

### MVCC
MVCC specifically offers behavior where readers never block writers and writers never block readers via providing a "snapshot" which controls tuples are visible for SQL statements

[Transaction Isolation](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4034976/difference-between-read-commit-and-repeatable-read)
[Database Lock](https://vladmihalcea.com/2014/09/14/a-beginners-guide-to-database-locking-and-the-lost-update-phenomena)
[Postgres MVCC](https://momjian.us/main/writings/pgsql/mvcc.pdf)
